1) What is a cash commitment? What is meant by the “two-edged quality” of a cash
commitment? What distinguishes robust from speculative from Ponzi finance?
A cash commitment is a promise to pay cash at some future point and must be less than cash flows
to meet the liquidity constraint. On the one hand, cash commitments provide a definite promise
of value at some real point in the future. On the other hand, the commitments made could become
impossible to meet and so create instability. There are two spectrums Minsky discusses: 
First, he discussed robust to fragile finance. Robust is when cash flow far exceeds 
commitments. Fragile is when cash commitments approach cash flows. 
Second, he called hedge finance when cash flows could meet all foreseeable commitments. Speculative
finance has commitments that could only be met by rolling over debts when they are due. And Ponzi 
finance is when it is expected that both the principal and interest must be rolled over. 
So, Hedge to Speculative to Ponzi is the same range as robust to fragile. 

2) Henry Simons “good financial society” is certainly a system of robust finance, since
there is no private debt at all. Sketch the balance sheet relationships (business,
household, government) that would exist in such a world. In terms of our dichotomy
between government bank and bankers bank, is this an extreme version of the
government bank system?


3) The Financial Instability Hypothesis suggests that there is a tendency for robust
finance to give way to speculative and then Ponzi finance. Why? Why do people make
cash commitments in the first place? Why do cash commitments that finance a profitable
investment wind up relaxing future survival constraints?
Expectations about the future financial system become embedded in financial agreements and 
commitments. But, our expectation of the future inevitabilty diverges from the future reality.
This is especially true when stability is long lasting and drives people to create 
more and more speculative investments with thinner and thinner margins of safety. 
But, investment and cash commitments are made in the first place because of an expectation 
they will be profitable. That is they will produce cash flows that exceed the cash commitments 
required to finance it over some time horizon. So investment financed by cash commitments can 
make future cash flows more robust. 


4) Minsky views the lender of last resort function as central to monetary policy. How
does lender of last resort work (balance sheets please)? Why does it work to forestall an
incipient crisis?
As the market spirls upwards, the cash commitments of different agents become interwined. A failure
to pay one cash commitment can cause that agent to fail to pay theirs in a spirl of liquidity problems.
When the market tightens and no one is willing to loan money because of their own precarious 
cash flow and cash commitment problem, the government can step in because it is qualitatively different.
The government can issue loans in cash and product the cash out of thin air really. So it can let agents 
meet their cash commitments without putting pressure on some other place in the system like a private loan 
would. This allows people to meet their obiligations and avoid a cascading crisis. The government should 
use its ability as lender of last resort to put a floor under the crashes and limits on the spirls up. 

C1 +500 CASH                  | -1000 IOU(C2)
   +1000 IOU next quarter(C4)
C2 +1000 IOU(C1)              | -1000 IOU(C3)
C3 +1000 IOU(C2)              | -1000 IOU next quarter(C4)
   +1000 CASH
C4 +1000 IOU next quarter(C3) | -1000 IOU next quarter(C1)

In this example, C1 had a bad quarter and can't pay its IOU to C2. So C2 cant pay its IOU to C3. C1 asks C3
for a loan, but C3 expects to have to pay all its available assets to C4 next quarter and is worried about 
liquidity constaint. Espeically since C2 is apparently having problems with its assets. But, if the government
stepped in, it could provide 500 CASH to C1 at a interest rate waiting for the IOU of C4 and allow everyone 
to meet their obiligations!


5) Minsky viewed the US in the 1970s as an “ailing bank”. Persistent negative cash
flows at the international level led to persistent depreciation of the dollar and rising
domestic inflation. What parts of this analysis carry over to the present day, and what
parts do not?
Well, the United States has continued to increase its trade defecit, but only by a relatively 
little amount(2.5 T in, 2.1 T out). Inflation continues, but at only about 2% compared to the 
massive 10% of concern to Minsky during the early 1970s. THe US dollar has remained the 
reserve currency of the world, so some argument doesnt hold up. 
Somehow, Reagan economics jacked up interest rates that make the dollar the reserve currency. And
the economy surivied because of defecit spending. Government defecit spending though does not 
provide a guartenee of refinancing that can allow borrowers and lenders to be confident enough 
to make investments. 