Study Questions for Hicks:
1) Hicks begins, as we have in this course, by thinking entirely about payments, and
distinguishing spot from deferred (money from credit). By thinking of a pure credit
payment system, he comes to the conclusion that the standard of value function of money
is logically prior to the medium of payment function. He continues on to state that
“metallic money, if it was to usable [as medium of payment], depended on a guarantee.
In that respect, it does not differ so much from paper money as if often supposed.” What
does this passage mean? Is he saying that metallic money is (at least in part) like a kind
of high quality third party debt that can be used as offset in a pure credit payment
system? (See p. 47)

After discussing merchants of different specailities in a marketplace, Hicks shows they need 
some way to agree upon an accounting system between these different merchants. Barter might work
for one off trades, but multilateral trades would be so contrived in such a system. Gold/silver is
a good use for this. Then the state steps in and provides assurances with coinage that the metals 
possessing this stamp are of a certain quality, weight, etc. Before the quality and weight would have 
to be tested at expense everytime the money was used for trading. But, can you really trust old age rulers?
Really, metallic money's value depends on trust of the government that is the stated value. So even when
people held physical gold in their hands, the use of money was at already based in part on trust of the 
government. So in some ways it is like a third party debt that can be used as credit, because a source of the 
value is a trust that not only the gold is the stated weight, but really that it is an acceptable form of payment
and will continue to be so. So, its kind of like a third party debt that will be acceptable as a form of payment
and will continue to be so. 


2) Hicks moves on (as we have in this course) to the matter of price and market making
institutions. On page 51, Hicks says that the rate of interest is like an exchange rate
between one sector of the economy that uses a credit system of payment and another
sector that uses a cash system of payment. What does he mean by this? Under what
circumstances would payments flow across the sectors, so necessitating an exchange
rate?

Hicks describe merchants paying each other with bills or promises to pay, while the rest of the economy pays 
with coins. If someone wants to interact with merchants and recieve money, they may accept a bill and then go 
to a dealer. Or if a merchant wants to buy from the rest of the economy, they can trade their bills at the dealer.
So in some ways it is like an exchange rate between these two worlds of finance. But by paying out cash now and 
accepting a bill, the dealers are also giving a loan where the interest rate is basically the discount they bought 
the bill at from its face value. This exchange rate values coins more than bills though the bills eventually become
coins. 

3) On page 55, Hicks suggests that we think of exchange dealers on the boundary of the two
sectors as a kind of bank. He thinks of their essential function as discounting bills for
cash, and notes that the scale of their operation is limited by their capital. How does the
invention of bank notes, and then bank deposits transferable by check, relax that
limitation? (Use balance sheets to help clarify his argument.)
By accepting money for storage and safe keeping, a dealer can expand the scale of his operation using the desposits 
as capital. Instead of paying for storage, the dealer can pay you for the ability to loan out your money while assuring
you the money is safe and retrievable on demand. This dealer is doing the three fts of a bank: accepting deposits, 
discounting bills, and making advances to customers. Even the 4th, providing a medium of payment.
        Assets  | Liabilities
Dealer +coins   | + deposits 

Person -coins   |
       +deposit |

4) On page 58, Hicks talks about bank lending as “expansion on each side of its balancesheet.” What is it that
disciplines this elasticity? What prevents the bank from expanding its balance sheet to infinity? 

At any time, depositers can come ask for money. But, by a bank loaning it wont always have all the money. This
means any bank is in a precarious situation at all times. The three ways to deal with this are: 1) law of large 
numbers meaning independent events(that break down in crisis) of withdrawals and deposits are predictable 2) 
hold reserve liquid deposits to cover fluctations 3) borrow from other banks. 2 is the only thing controllable 
by a bank and it is meant to be kept high so the bank remains liquid. Infinite balance sheet would mean fragility.